All right in this lecture we're going to learn how to draw the human ear.
Now I know the human ear can be very complicated and really hard to understand.
But in this lecture I'm going to show you how to look at the ear in simple shapes that way.
Drawing is very easy for you.
So the first thing I like to do is I like to think about that ear in its biggest shape which is sort
of an ache like shape.
Now depending on your year that might be a little bit smaller it might be a little bit bigger.
It might be a little bit different in shape.
But for the most part it's sort of an egg like shape.
So it's smaller at one end and larger at the other.
Yet it's a very rounded shape.
Next you need to break it up into three separate shapes.
So the first one is your curved shape.
So there's going to be a shape that comes around like so and that's your first shape.
So it's very simple to think about.
Men on the bottom edge you're going to add a little bit of some form to it like so.
But then it's going to get a lot smaller.
The more you get around this curve shape the next shape you need to think about is the why.
So there's sort of a letter Y within this ear.
So if we go ahead and draw that in but this is a curved letter Y and so it's going to have the top hurt
like so.
And then that's going to curve around right in here.
Like so at the end of this why there's is going to be sort of a bell shape.
But you have the letter Y in there and now we also have this curved shape right here.
The last shape you have is a sort of a bump.
So there's going to be a little bit of a bump and it's going to start right at the seam line that this
circle is on on the end of our Y.
And it basically just bumps off like so.
Once you have your basic shape like this drawn out it's pretty simple to fine the rest of your ear.
So basically if we go ahead and erase this away just a little bit so it's a little bit lighter.
And I want to erase it completely away.
So I want to see a little bit.
Well now we can go ahead and draw our ear.
So first we're going to start with the lobe.
So there's two different types of lobes there's a dangling lobe and then there's also a connected lobe
so connected lobe is when you see the lobe and it connects like so and it Dingding lobe is when it comes
up and then it comes back down and the lobe kind of Dingell's there.
In this case we're going to create a dangling lobe.
So there's our low grade there then that year is going to come out.
And then it's going to come back in just a little bit about here in the middle of our ear shape and
that's going to come back up and then we're going to get a little bit of a straight line right there
and then that's going to curve all the way back around into our head like so.
So there's the basic contouring line of our ear.
Now we can move on to the inside of the ear.
So first off are going to start off with the outside shape.
So we have our curved shape that we drew in here and we're going to use that as a guide.
So starting right here we're going to go ahead and start to introduce a second line that kind of follows
this one on the outside pretty closely.
So we'll go ahead and draw that in as we get up here.
It kind of dips down just a little bit and then we go ahead and we curve all the way back over and then
this is going to come down into our ear itself onto the inside of it.
So like our shape it curves in like so next let's go ahead and work on the Y-shaped.
So first off the Y at the bottom has this little circle that's going to turn into its own shape like
so and then that is going to turn into this shape right here which is following our Y-shaped.
And then we're going to go ahead and use that same shape right over here to create the inside of our
ear and then we have another shape coming off over here another line from our.
But rather than just drawing that in we're going to go ahead and shade in the space in between this
line and that line and then we're going to go ahead and shade in the space.
On the other side as well.
So that way we're still using that shape of the Y.
It's just not being drawn necessarily.
Next we're going to come over to her bump and the bump is basically where it's covering the ear hole
so we can go ahead and sort of sketch in that hole a little bit darker.
And then this shape right here curves into this one right here which this one starts to curve in that
direction and they start to curve together till they taper off and sort of disappear.
Then we can go ahead and Durkan in this area of our ear and then right here these two shapes or bump.
And in this little circle right here they connect like so that we can go ahead and shape that in.
All right.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and start shading in our entire years.
So generally this area in here is going to be darker and the areas that are really dark are just areas
that are further back and are deeper into the nooks and crannies of the ear.
And so they're getting shadows cast on them or in them and we'll go ahead and shade this area.
Now we can go ahead and start shading up here.
Also add a little bit of shading on the bottom side every year like so go ahead and also shade on this
bottom side because as occurs down into here it's going to get some shadow on it.
We're also going to get a little bit a shadow on this underside of the outside of the year can also
go ahead and Durkan this outer area a little bit more.
Also since the light is coming down from the top we're going to get a little bit of a cast shadow being
cast from this ledge right here.
So let's go ahead and add that in.
So I'm going to have it come to you about there.
I'm also have a cast on this part of the year to go ahead and darken in these darker areas that are
within our cast shadow.
All right.
Great.
So now we have an ear from a side view.
Now what does it look like from a front view.
Well let's go ahead and draw.
So basically we're going to take this year and we're going to turn it on its side.
So we're looking at it from a front view of the human face.
So first we're going to go ahead and start by drawing a squished sort of a shape like so.
And then what we do is we first driver's top area so the top area comes out like so then it comes down
and we don't want to continue that because what happens is a way shape or white shape sort of Patroons
out like so and then it comes back in to the globe.
So then we can go ahead and draw in our ear lobe down there and not go ahead and draw on our bump which
we'll be right here now.
Bumba is going to connect into this curved shape.
So it's going to curve around like so
and then we're going to go ahead and draw on the rest of our Y-shaped so we get this side of our wire
right there.
We can go and shoot that in that area.
And then we go ahead and we get this bottom side of the Y shape and that curves all the way over into
here and then that comes all the way back into shape here.
And then that will connect right there.
Now we can go ahead and shade in here and we can also shade in on this side where your hole is going
to be.
And that's the side view of an here.
We can also add a little bit more shading on this side like so.
And now let's go ahead and move on to drawn the ear from the backside because sometimes you might be
drawing the back of a character's head and you won't know how to draw an ear from the back.
So let's learn how to do that right now.
So basically we're going to draw the same shape first.
So sort of this squished egg shape where it's small on one end and larger on the other.
And then what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and draw this outside edge only.
We're only going to see the edge.
We're not going to see any of this detail on the inside of the ear since we're looking at the back of
it and it's basically going to be a little lip that's on the edge of the main shape of our ear so there
it is of the left of our ear.
So and then that's going to connect back to the head almost with a straight line just like so and then
that's the edge of our head right there.
So that's what the ear looks like from behind.
We can go ahead and add some more shading and thereby darkening this underside can also Durkan with
in here on this shape
we can also extend this without a little bit more on the top side.
But there you have it.
That's the ear from the backside.
It's the simplest part.
You're on the air.
All right.
So that brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to draw the ear from the side view the front of you and the back of
you.
Remember that when you're drawn your ear you want to break it up into these four simple shapes.
So first we break it up into the egg shape which is the main shape of our ear.
Then we want to break that up into the curved line that comes around like so and almost starts to turn
into a swirl.
But we don't go that far.
But we want to make this curved line like so and then we also want to add a little bit of a fat area
down here to our shape and then you want to add the letter Y so the letter y goes in just like so and
then it connects like so.
So now we have a letter Y and then we got a little ball to the end of that.
Next we go ahead and add and this little bump right here and that will set you up to draw a very realistic
and well rendered ear.
I really hope you enjoy this lecture and your assignment for it is to go ahead and draw that your from
the side.
And then I want you to go ahead and post that either to the Q&A section of the Course or the Facebook
group.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I'm really look forward to seeing you in the next one.
We're we're going to learn how to draw hair in it's form and also how to add in the highlights to make
it look very realistic.